The final principle is to maintain good data sensitivity and privacy.
If you're collecting information about individuals that could identify them,
then you need to be careful that the data you collect is kept
secure and only made available to those who need to see it.
Sensitive information includes fields like name,
account number, street address, pictures, and timestamps.
If you need to publish findings that make use of sensitive information,
make sure that it has been anonymized and perhaps
aggregated so that individuals can't be backtraced from the data.
Sometimes, just basic anonymization isn't always enough.
An America Online data leak from 2006,
accidentally released information about search terms by users over a three month period.
Although there weren't names specifically
attached to the searches made by each account ID,
the searches were enough information for the New York Times
to identify specific people from the released dataset.
Handling ethical issues isn't always cut and dry.
Sometimes, the dividing line between acceptable and unacceptable is hard to decide.
In the medical and social science fields,
Institutional Review Boards or IRBs have been set up to
review experiment proposals to make sure that the risks have been properly considered,
and the benefits line up appropriately.
But unless you're conducting research through one of those institutions,
it's likely that you will not have IRB oversight on your own experiments.
So, it's very important to be aware of these issues,
so that you do not put undue risk on
your users when you make potentially impactful changes.